federalist number 13 advantage of the
union in respect to economy and
government
for the independent journal hamilton
to the people of the state of new york
as connected with the subject of revenue
we may with propriety consider that of
economy
the money saved from one object may be
usefully applied to another
and there will be so much the less to be
drawn from the pockets of the people
if the states are united under one
government there will be but one
national civil list to support
if they are divided into several
confederacies there will be as many
different national civil lists to be
provided for
and each of them as to the principal
departments coextensive with that which
would be necessary
for a government of the whole the entire
separation of the states into 13
unconnected sovereignties is a project
too extravagant and too replete with
danger to have many advocates
the ideas of men who speculate upon the
dismemberment of the
empire seem generally turned toward
three confederacies
one consisting of the four northern
another of the four middle and a third
of the five southern states
there is little probability that there
would be a greater number
according to this distribution each
confederacy would comprise an extent of
territory larger than that of the
kingdom of great britain
no well-informed man will suppose that
the affairs of such confederacy can be
properly regulated by a government less
comprehensive in its organs or
institutions than that which has been
proposed by the convention
when the dimensions of a state attain to
a certain magnitude
it requires the same energy of
government and the same forms of
administration which are requisite in
one of much greater extent
this idea admits not of precise
demonstration because there is no rule
by which we can measure the momentum of
civil power necessary to the government
of any given number of individuals
but when we consider that the island of
britain nearly commensurate with each of
the supposed confederacies contains
about eight millions of people
and when we reflect upon the degree of
authority required to direct the
passions of so large a society to the
public good
we shall see no reason to doubt that the
like portion of power would be
sufficient to perform the same task in a
society far more numerous
civil power properly organized and
exerted is capable of defusing its force
to a very great extent
and can in a manner reproduce itself in
every part of a great empire by a
judicious arrangement of subordinate
institutions
the supposition that each confederacy
into which the states would be likely to
be divided would require a government
not less comprehensive than the one
proposed will be strengthened by another
supposition
more probable than that which presents
us with three confederacies as the
alternative to a general union
if we attend carefully to geographical
and commercial considerations in
conjunction with the habits and
prejudices of the different states
we shall be led to conclude that in case
of disunion they will most naturally
leak themselves under two governments
the four eastern from all the causes
that form the links of national sympathy
and connection
may with certainty be expected to unite
new york
situated as she is would never be unwise
enough to oppose a feeble and
unsupported flank to the weight of that
confederacy there are other obvious
reasons that would facilitate her
accession to it
new jersey is too small a state to think
of being a frontier
in opposition to this more powerful
combination nor did there appear to be
any obstacles to her admission into it
even pennsylvania would have strong
inducements to join the northern league
an active foreign commerce on the basis
of her own navigation
is her true policy and coincides with
the opinions and dispositions of our
citizens
the more southern states from various
circumstances may not think themselves
much interested in the encouragement of
navigation
they may prefer a system which would
give unlimited scope to all nations to
be the carriers as well as the
purchasers of their commodities
pennsylvania may not choose to confound
her interests in a connection so adverse
to her policy
as she must at all events be a frontier
she may deem it most consistent with her
safety to have her exposed side turn
towards the weaker power of the southern
rather than towards the stronger power
of the northern confederacy
this would give her the fairest chance
to avoid being the flanders of america
whatever may be the determination of
pennsylvania if the northern confederacy
includes new jersey
there is no likelihood of more than one
confederacy to the south of that state
nothing can be more evident than that
the 13 states
will be able to support a national
government better than one-half or
one-third
or any number less than the whole this
reflection must have great weight in
obviating that objection to the proposed
plan which is founded on the principle
of expense
an objection however which when we come
to take a nearer view of it will appear
in every light to stand on mistaken
ground
if in addition to the consideration of a
plurality of civil lists
we take into view the number of persons
who must necessarily be employed to
guard the inland communication between
the different confederacies against
illicit trade and who in time will
infallibly spring up out of the
necessities of revenue
and if we also take into view the
military establishments which it has
been
shown would unavoidably result from the
jealousies and conflicts of the several
nations into which the states would be
divided
we shall clearly discover that a
separation would not be less injurious
to the economy
than to the tranquility commerce revenue
and liberty of every part
publius